# Contribution

## Setting Up

1. Clone this repository

2. Run `go get` to install dependencies as listed in `go.mod`

3. Add external files. Those are plain text files embeded into go binary at build time. They are not contained in this repository's source code due to safety concerns. Put those files into the `build` directory, which is ignored by git:

    * `api.toml`: configuration data in toml format, similar to a dot env file used by other frameworks. This file is used by `viper` to load various username, password or access keys. You can also run `make dev-env` to auto this process if you have this file stored on you machine's `~/config` directory.

    * `build_time` A file containing a string indicating when the binary is built, in ISO8601 format. Generated with `date` command in this way: `date +%FT%T%z > build/build_time`

    * `commit` A file containng a string of last commit time and hash generated by command `git log --max-count=1 --pretty=format:%aI_%h > build/commit`

    * `version` A file contaning a string of current version generated by `git describe --tags > build/version`

The `Makefile` contains recipes to auto this process. Run `make dev-env` will copy `api.toml` file from you machine's `~/config` directory (you have to have this file in it!). Run `make version` will generate these `build_time`, `commit` and `version` files.

See the `go:embed` directive at the start of `main.go` on how these files are embedded.


## Upgrade Dependencies

## Avoid Cyclie Import

## Continuous Integration

## Run on Server
